>>And I think many
people today don't
know what to believe anymore.
>>People are basically
going to keep on
to help uncover what
really happened.
>>I felt like something
was watching me.
>>We weren't given
all the information.
We weren't told
the entire story.
>>GEORGE NOORY: Well,
welcome to another edition
of "Beyond Belief," where
our very special guest is
one of the world's foremost
remote viewers and author
of "Reading the Enemy's
Mind," Paul Smith.
Paul, welcome to the program.
>>PAUL SMITH: Thank you.
It's always a joy to
be with you, George.
>>NOORY: Now a lot of
people will say, OK,
what is remote viewing?
So give us the Paul
Smith definition.
>>SMITH: Remote
viewing is the ability
to essentially project
your consciousness
to another part of the
universe, usually somewhere
on Planet Earth, to perceive
people, places, things,
events that you have no
other connection to other
than the power of your own mind.
>>NOORY: So this is literally
concentrating, letting
your mind wander,
picking up things,
maybe targeted objects,
things you're looking for.
>>SMITH: Yes, although there's
a little bit more control
over it.
It's a little more
than just wandering.
What you do is you focus
on perceiving the intended
target of your conscious mind.
And it's interesting that we
can pick up all kinds of things.
We can pick up
sensory experiences,
such as colors,
tastes, sounds, smells.
We can pick up more intangible
information-- purposes,
actions, intentions,
things like that.
We can pick up shapes.
We can pick up some
motion, movement.
You can pick up whole scenes.
It all depends where
you are in the process.
But it is-- it can be-- I
wouldn't say it's like being
there physically, but it's--
>>NOORY: Pretty darn close.
>>SMITH: Pretty close.
Yes, pretty close.
>>NOORY: Can you depict
time with remote viewing?
And by that I mean, if
you're looking at something
and see an explosion,
can you say May, 2018.
I know that's the date.
Can you do that?
>>SMITH: Unfortunately,
you can't.
Remote viewing is
a descriptive kind
of approach to this
projected consciousness.
And what that means is you
could describe what happens.
You could say, I perceive
this big ball of rolling fire,
whatever, a loud explosion.
It reminds me of
some kind of, well,
explosion in a certain location.
But if you say, well,
when did it happen?
You'll say, well, I
know it's in the past.
Say OK, well, that's good.
When?
And you say, well,
I don't know when.
But this happened before,
and this other thing
happened afterwards.
And so using that, you may be
able to kind of triangulate
when approximately
that happened.
But the thing about
remote viewing
is that it's very right brain.
And so-- and things
like measuring
time and language and
mathematics and all that kind
of stuff is fairly
right-- or left brain.
And the two don't really
cooperate very well
in a remote viewing scenario.
And so that's why it's more
descriptive rather than
labeling.
>>NOORY: So remote
viewing is real time,
but it's also future time.
Is it also past time?
>>SMITH: Remote viewing seems
to be somewhat time independent.
You can remote view the present.
You can remote view
the past essentially
as accurately as you can
remote view the present.
You can remote view the future,
but there are some caveats.
You can't remote
view it as well.
And my own opinion is that's
because the future hasn't
happened yet.
>>NOORY: And it's changeable.
>>SMITH: And it's changeable.
In fact, it's
probably infinitely
changeable within
certain parameters.
And so oftentimes when people
remote view the future,
if it's what I call
the open future, which
is the future of all
the possibilities,
they'll often get it wrong and
only occasionally get it right.
Now there is a form
of remote viewing
which allows you to
be more accurate.
It's called associative
remote viewing.
So that's a specialized
application of it.
>>NOORY: How'd you get involved
in remote viewing, Paul?
>>SMITH: Well, it was an
interesting experience.
I didn't even know it existed.
I had no idea--
>>NOORY: Not a lot of people do.
>>SMITH: No.
And especially back then.
This was 1983.
I was in the Army.
I was an Army
Intelligence Officer.
My specialty was Middle
Eastern intelligence.
And I was assigned to
Fort Meade, Maryland
in a position where I was doing
some administrative things
with intelligence that had been
collected from the Middle East.
Well, I happened to move in
next door to a guy named-- now
he goes by Skip Atwater,
then it was Fred Atwater--
across the street from
another guy named Tom McNair.
And they did some weird things.
They wore civilian
clothes all the time
even though they lived on
a military installation.
And they had rank,
they were officers.
Tom had a beard.
And they went off to
this, almost a shack out
in the woods.
>>NOORY: All the time, right.
>>SMITH: All the time.
And when I asked
them what they did,
they said, I can't tell you,
which in the intelligence
field, that's not so unusual.
What was unusual was
they couldn't even
tell me what kind of
intelligence they did.
Now normally, you
know, they're either
into human intelligence,
which is spies and informants.
Or they're into
signals intelligence,
which is what NSA does--
>>NOORY: Technology.
>>SMITH: Intercepting.
Or they're into
imagery intelligence,
which is the spy satellites
and U2s and stuff.
I said, well, which one
of those are you doing?
Because that's all
there is, right?
They said, we don't
do any of those.
I said, what?
But you're intelligence?
Yes.
Well, what do you do?
They said, we can't tell you.
>>NOORY: So you're baffled.
>>SMITH: I'm completely baffled.
So one day they came over
to my house and they said,
we know you're interested
in what we're doing.
We think you might
be good at it,
but we can't tell you what it
is until you take some tests.
So I took these tests,
scored apparently
where they wanted me to.
They invited me over
to the shack where
they were working
out of and said,
OK, what we do is
collect intelligence
against foreign threats using
a parapsychological phenomenon
known as remote viewing.
We essentially want you to
volunteer to be a psychic spy.
>>NOORY: And we think
you've got what it takes.
>>SMITH: And they were
expecting me to be shocked.
And I was, sort of.
They said, you can come
back tomorrow and tell us.
I said, no, I already
know the answer here.
I want to do it.
>>NOORY: And had you,
over the years, Paul,
without knowing what it was,
had you dabbled in this?
>>SMITH: I had always
been interested in ESP,
extrasensory perception,
read a lot of science fiction
that that was the focus of.
But I had been involved
in a junior high science
project, which they used the
zener cards, the ESP cards,
and had been a total failure.
I had absolutely no
evidence of being psychic.
And so I'd kind
of said, oh, it's
probably just fantasy,
probably doesn't work.
And so I was kind
of a mild skeptic.
When they sat me down and
said, this is what we do,
I did this calculation--
took me about 15 seconds.
I used to be really
interested in ESP.
I really wish it worked.
But I've become a skeptic.
But here they're telling
me the government
is paying for a program.
They're recruiting
people to train.
It must mean it really works.
>>NOORY: This is exciting.
>>SMITH: There's no way
I'm not going to do this.
So it was great.
>>NOORY: And then
you went full time.
>>SMITH: Yes.
>>NOORY: In the military.
>>SMITH: Full time.
Seven years.
>>NOORY: How many
people were in there?
>>SMITH: Well, that varied.
At the height of the program
there were 11 people assigned.
But it could go
down as low as four.
That's the lowest it got
to, is about four or five.
It all depended on how it was
faring within the government.
I mean, there were people in the
government that believed in it.
There were people in
the government who--
some who believed in it but
didn't want to have anything
to do with it, others who just
didn't believe in it at all
and didn't even want
to hear about it.
I mean, there were
CIA directors who
were famous for throwing
people out of their office
if they even brought
up the subject.
There were just some people
that didn't want to do it.
And so sometimes it was in
favor, sometimes it wasn't.
And it kind of varied
throughout that time.
>>NOORY: What kind of
projects did you do?
Can you talk about them?
>>SMITH: Now we can.
Back then, obviously,
I couldn't.
We actually-- the gamut
of intelligence questions.
The thing about remote viewing
is, what they used us for,
was the last ditch, no other
hope kind of collection.
>>NOORY: We need something.
>>SMITH: And we're
not getting it
from any of our
other disciplines.
So they'd use us on those.
So we worked the
hostages in Lebanon,
trying to track down
western hostages
that Hezbollah had captured.
We worked Chinese nuclear tests,
Soviet weapons developments,
narco trafficking.
The latter years
of the program we
did a lot of attempting to
interdict narcotics shipments,
find out meetings of drug
traffickers, things like that.
Almost anything that could
be an intelligence problem,
they had us on.
>>NOORY: Was it accurate?
I mean, were you
solving problems?
>>SMITH: The thing I always tell
people about remote viewing--
you get really wild stories
about how good it is.
You get wild stories about
how it doesn't work at all.
The truth is in between.
Remote viewing
doesn't always work.
And because it's kind
of a frontier science,
we don't always know
why it doesn't work.
But it does work other times.
And when it works,
it's very obvious
that that's how we collected
the intelligence that
actually did work.
And we had some really amazing
successes and some unfortunate
failures.
>>NOORY: Did the
successes surprise people
in the military?
>>SMITH: The people who
had not been involved
the program would
often be surprised.
We had this great
briefing book, we
called it the Red Book, that
would go around and show
all these great stellar
examples of when it had worked.
But what was funny, when you
were in the program itself,
it got to be kind of like
just another job, you know?
You go, oh man, do I have
to do another remote viewing
session today?
My good friend and
then boss Bill Ray,
one time we were
walking, passing
each other in the office there,
and he stopped me for a second.
And that was back
when you could still
smoke in an Army facility.
He had his pipe, you know,
he was puffing out his smoke,
looking very
professorial for a Major.
He said, Paul, you know what
amazes me about this stuff?
I said, no, what?
He said, it doesn't
amaze me anymore.
>>NOORY: Commonplace.
>>SMITH: Commonplace.
Although, to some degree, that's
not quite true, because even
then, occasionally we could
have a success that would even
blow our minds, as
used as we were to it.
>>NOORY: That's amazing.
Have you figured
out how it works,
what you're tapping
into out there?
It's almost as if-- I've always
called it the wireless Internet
of the universe, where
we all are intermixed
and we tie ourselves in.
But what is it, Paul?
I mean, to think
of remote viewing
when your physical
eyes aren't there,
and yet you can see things,
is absolutely mind-boggling.
What is it?
>>SMITH: Well, I'll give you
the unscientific answer here,
the one that scientists
wouldn't like.
I think that it
shows that there are,
for want of a better term,
forces or connections
of some kind in the universe
that are not physical,
that we as humans--
>>NOORY: And never were.
>>SMITH: And
probably never were.
It's called dualism, I
actually have become convinced
that we have the physical
part of the universe,
but of equal standing to
that is a non-physical part
of the universe as well.
And there's a lot of
philosophical complication
to that which I
won't get into here.
But you do get folks who
want to try and reconcile
all science together
in one place.
And I do consider parapsychology
and remote viewing as science,
for very good reasons.
But those folks that want to--
who believe in remote viewing,
but still want to
reconcile it with science,
try to explain it from
quantum entanglement, quantum
non-locality, which is the
fact that, to some degree,
all physical objects
are connected
in some way at the
subatomic level.
And I don't know, I
could end up being wrong,
and that's indeed
the explanation.
But there are many reasons to
think that it isn't the reason.
One of the reasons is
that quantum entanglement
isn't an information
transmitting kind of a thing.
And yet the information that
you get from remote viewing
is such a high order
and a high level
that quantum entanglement
can't explain it.
Quantum entanglement
can't explain the ability
to go back and forward in time.
That just is beyond
its ability to manage.
So there's attempt at
scientific explanation,
but I think ultimately--
I hate to say it,
it's that old joke about
Einstein, you know,
where all this stuff and then
a miracle happens, right?
So it just got written
in as the final line.
>>NOORY: It is
remarkable, how it works.
And you are 100%
convinced it works.
>>SMITH: Oh, yeah.
I mean, there's no
doubt in my mind.
Absolutely.
>>NOORY: Do you
still use it now?
>>SMITH: Both seen
it and done it.
>>NOORY: In your non-military
life, do you use it?
>>SMITH: In my
non-military life, yes.
First of all, of course,
I teach people to do it.
>>NOORY: Yes, you do.
>>NOORY: And there's
a lot of folks who--
>>NOORY: Get into that, too.
>>SMITH: OK.
Yeah, they're very excited
about that part of it.
I have been asked to do
some stuff for industry,
do some remote viewing
work for industry.
I've been asked
sometimes by police,
sometimes just by
interested people,
to do forensic remote viewing
or looking for missing people.
So, yes.
In my everyday
life, I mostly use
it to find parking
spots in the mall
so I don't have to walk so far.
You know, I use it when
there's a call for it.
But in my own
personal life I don't
have a huge amount
of need for it.
Occasionally yes.
If I can't find my keys, I
may use it then, and so forth.
>>NOORY: It is remarkable,
whatever this may be.
Now you said you teach it.
Is it easy to teach?
Can everybody grasp this?
>>SMITH: Everybody can grasp
it to a certain degree.
But you're talking
about a skill.
It's kind of like
riding a bicycle.
You can tell people the
principles of balance.
You can teach them about
inertia and all that stuff.
>>NOORY: But they gotta
do it on their own.
>>SMITH: They gotta
And the secret to
teaching remote viewing
is, first of all, explain
as much as you can
about how to do it.
And then you put them
in an environment
to where if they're going to be
successful, they have to do it.
And there's a bit
of trial and error,
in addition to the instruction.
But that's normal for any
kind of complex skill.
And generally I find-- I've
only found one or two people who
just didn't really
get anywhere with it.
Most people have at
least some success,
and it's a really
gratifying thing
to watch them have these
epiphanies and say, wow,
I didn't know anything
about that target.
Because you have
to do this blind.
I didn't know
anything about that.
But look at this drawing,
look at this model,
it's just amazing.
It really does have some
resemblance to the target.
So that's a lot of fun.
>>NOORY: I have found
that when you think,
when you try to think when
you're remote viewing,
it doesn't work.
You just gotta, like, let
your head-- clear yourself
out and grab these
thoughts that come in.
But if you really
start concentrating,
your mind starts to put
these pictures in your head
when they're not there.
>>SMITH: That's exactly right.
In fact, this is one
of the biggest issues
to overcome when you're
training someone,
is to help them understand the
difference between that, which
we call mental noise,
and the actual signal,
and learn how to limit
the mental noise as
much as possible.
It never totally goes away,
but you learn how to limit it.
And then you also learn how
to sort it out from the signal
that you want to come in.
There's this old story about
the Army Air Defense Artillery.
Those are the guys that defend
you against enemy aircraft.
Somebody asked,
well, how do you tell
the difference between friendly
airplanes and enemy airplanes,
where they're all
mixing up in the sky?
And the Air Defense Artillery
answer is, we don't bother.
We just shoot them all down and
sort them out on the ground.
That's kind of what you're
doing in remote viewing, Is
you're getting all
the information,
you're putting it down.
But as you're putting
it down, you're
separating it out to what's
signal and what's noise.
>>NOORY: Take me on a
remote viewing course.
How do we start?
Let's assume I'm a total novice.
>>SMITH: OK.
I'll talk about my
fully-leaded courses.
I teach controlled
remote viewing.
It lasts for five days
and change, a little bit
into the sixth day.
Very intense course.
I only allow a few people
to take it at a time,
so you've got a really intimate
relation with the teacher
there.
First thing I do is I
start off with lectures
to explain the background.
And then actually my students
have to write essays,
because it's been discovered
that learning process,
the feeding back
from the student
actually is where most
of the learning occurs.
I can tell them stuff,
but it doesn't sink in
until they have to
tell it back to me,
>>NOORY: They tell it to you.
>>SMITH: That's right.
So we do that.
We have practical exercises.
I even have one where
we go out and hug trees,
trying to understand
human perception.
Because normally--
and perception
is a very key element
in remote viewing.
And normally we take our
perceptual experience
for granted.
We use it as a tool
to tell us if we're
going to get hit by a taxi cab.
That big yellow thing
coming, well, we
don't think about
the quality of yellow
and the experience of the
sound and all that stuff.
Normally we just jump.
>>NOORY: We just jump.
>>SMITH: But in order to
really remote view well,
you have to
recognize when you're
having sensory
experiences, what they're
like, what their quality is
like, and get those down.
So I take them out
and they hug a tree
and describe what that
was like, for an example.
Then we do remote
viewing sessions,
and we do a lot of
them, because again,
that's how you actually
learn to do the process,
by discovering what the
inner process is like
that no one can explain to you.
No one can tell you
what that's like.
You have to experience
it yourself.
>>NOORY: You have to
experience it yourself.
>>SMITH: And after you've
done enough of those,
by the time the end
of the fifth day
and the morning of the
sixth day come along,
you've got a really
good introduction to it.
You really have got a
lot of practice at it.
And you should be showing
some pretty good results
by that point.
>>NOORY: Do you find that by
practicing remote viewing,
it makes people more intuitive
in their day-to-day living?
>>SMITH: As a matter
of fact, that's
probably one of the biggest
benefits people get.
A lot of people take
remote viewing just
to validate themselves, to
see that it really does work.
But a lot of them do it because
they want to do things with it.
But frankly, you don't
remote view all the time
even if you're involved in
operational remote viewing.
But you do use your
intuition all the time.
And there's the garden
variety of intuition,
which is what modern
psychology believes in,
which is just subliminal
perceptual information comes in
coupled with what
you already know.
But I really do believe
there's this ESP
component to true
intuition as well.
And having this experience
with remote viewing--
understanding more about how you
work, practicing how you work,
how your subconscious
and conscious mind
work together to get these
non-local ESP kind of signals
in-- really does
enhance your ability
to use your normal intuition,
pay attention to it,
and learn how to get it
as purely as possible,
because you know
about mental noise,
and you know how to avoid it.
And you know how to sort it out.
You actually have a much better
experience with it that way.
>>NOORY: Every once in
awhile on "Coast to Coast"
when I'm interviewing
somebody, I
will go into a remote
viewing session with them,
even if we're not talking
about remote viewing.
And it's strange, Paul,
but nine out of 10 times,
I'll describe to him
what his room looks like,
what he's doing.
I even told a guy that
he had his feet up
on the desk with
his socks on and had
a hole in his sock, which
all happened, all happened.
>>SMITH: So how many of them do
you catch in their bathrobes?
>>NOORY: I try not
to look at those.
Now that's an interesting
question, too.
Can you blot yourself
out on purpose
if you don't want
to see something?
>>SMITH: If you don't
want to observe something,
you can make it so
you don't observe it.
>>NOORY: Yeah.
Just to block it out.
Or does it come
in automatically?
>>SMITH: I know people who-- for
example, in the remote viewing
program, oftentimes we would
be targeting against people
who are probably dead.
But the viewer, having to be
blind to the circumstances,
they don't know
what the target is.
They don't even necessarily
know it's a person.
They have to find that out.
There are some folks
who absolutely refused
to recognize if
somebody was dead.
I don't mean just acknowledge
they were dead, but recognize
there was even a person
there, if they were dead.
It's like they would
look the other direction
in the psychic domain, you
know, and they'd say, oh yeah,
there's trees and
flowers, all this stuff.
Well, what about the person?
Of course, you wouldn't
actually ask the viewer that.
But they would never report
there being a person there.
And it seems to be,
oftentimes, it's
because that person was dead
and they were very uncomfortable
with that state.
>>NOORY: If a person
is being remote viewed,
does he or she know that?
>>SMITH: The standard
answer is no.
>>NOORY: You don't
see an eye floating--
>>SMITH: No.
The standard answer is no.
But I would like to
see some research done.
So there's this
research protocol
in parapsychology
called Direct Mental
Influence in Living
Systems, DMILS.
And what they do is determine if
someone in an isolation chamber
can tell when they're
being thought about.
And there's some pretty
good evidence that they can.
They can't tell consciously.
If you ask them consciously
whether they've heard something
or whether they've experienced
something, they say no, I mean,
I've been sitting there for half
an hour, nothing's happened.
But if you look at the EG
traces or the skin conductivity
or whatever, you
see spikes where
they've actually been accessed.
I suspect that in-- at
the subconscious level,
the autonomic level,
that probably there
is a recognition, a systemic
recognition that you're
being accessed.
But consciously, I've never
seen any evidence of anybody
who has consciously been aware
they've been remote viewed.
>>NOORY: Person is
thinking of somebody.
That person calls.
I think the two of them
are connected somehow.
>>NOORY: Yeah.
Absolutely.
It's not exactly remote viewing.
It's more like a
non-local connection.
>>NOORY: Pre-cognitive thing.
>>SMITH: Well, it
could be pre-cognition.
Could also be a connection
between the two people, almost
telepathic, but
at a lesser level
than mental consciousness.
They just become aware that
somebody's going to call them,
and they do.
And of course a
scientist would say,
a skeptical scientist
would say, well, you know,
it's just coincidence.
You remember the times when
that happens and you don't when
there's-- but frankly, I
generally pay attention.
>>NOORY: And I don't
believe in coincidences.
>>SMITH: Well, yeah.
That's a whole nother
show we could talk about.
>>NOORY: Maybe the next one.
>>SMITH: Yeah.
I pay attention, because I
know that I'm in this field.
And I have to say it happens
more times to me than can
be explained by the
so-called coincidence.
>>NOORY: Is it uncanny with
the amount of times it happens?
>>SMITH: Not for me.
It's kind of fun.
>>NOORY: You're used to it now.
>>SMITH: Yeah, and that's
the interesting thing
about remote viewing.
You start to realize that
this is a normal human thing.
>>NOORY: Does it ever bother
you that you can remote view?
>>SMITH: No.
Actually, in a way, it's
very enabling and empowering.
And I think most people
find it that way as well.
>>NOORY: Do you ever
use it personally
to see that missing Malaysian
plane or anything like that?
>>SMITH: Actually I avoid
those kind of targets.
>>NOORY: You do.
>>SMITH: Yes.
>>NOORY: How come?
>>SMITH: Because I think that
the psychic signal line, if you
will, is very polluted,
contaminated, in those kind
of settings.
And it's probably very
hard to get ground truth
in a remote viewing
setting from that.
You have all of the standard
everyday speculations about it.
I mean, think of the
thousands, perhaps millions
of articles that
have been-- media
reports on this
thing now, right?
And everybody has
their own theory,
and they're all
talking about it.
So that alone can percolate
into the ESP realm.
>>NOORY: I think so, too.
>>SMITH: But there's
been probably
thousands of remote
viewers, or wannabe remote--
some remote viewers, some
wannabe remote viewers-- who
tried to remote view
it, and they come up
with all these
different things, too.
So those kind of high-profile
public kind of things--
this Malaysian flight, the
other Malaysian flight.
JonBenet Ramsey,
whatever-- all of those
have been such a target
of all this speculation
that I think that it's been
hopelessly contaminated.
So I don't even bother
with those kind of targets.
>>NOORY: Super. "Reading
the Enemy's Mind."
Where do people get the book?
>>SMITH: Well, you can
get it online at Amazon.
It's actually not in print
anymore except on Kindle.
>>NOORY: We've sold out?
>>SMITH: It's sold out,
I guess you could say.
I do have a new one
coming out, though.
>>NOORY: What's that?
What's the name?
>>SMITH: It's called
"The Essential
Guide to Remote Viewing."
>>NOORY: Excellent.
>>SMITH: And the
goal is to actually
to answer these kind of
questions, and many more,
for people who are
interested in it
or have friends that
are interested in it,
and want to know
more without having
to pay out a lot of money.
>>NOORY: Well, it's
a very powerful tool.
Thank you, Paul.
>>SMITH: You bet.
Thank you.
>>NOORY: Well, so
we hope we gave you
a little glimpse of
what remote viewing is.
On our next edition of "Beyond
Belief" with Paul Smith,
we'll get into how is it used?
I'm George Noory, and
thanks for watching.